I--HOW THE WOMAN CAME TO KIRKBY-MALHOUSE


Bleak and wind-swept is the little town of Kirkby-Malhouse, harsh and
forbidding are the fells upon which it stands.  It stretches in a single
line of grey-stone, slate-roofed houses, dotted down the furze-clad slope
of the rolling moor.

In this lonely and secluded village, I, James Upperton, found myself in
the summer of '85.  Little as the hamlet had to offer, it contained that
for which I yearned above all things--seclusion and freedom from all
which might distract my mind from the high and weighty subjects which
engaged it.  But the inquisitiveness of my landlady made my lodgings
undesirable and I determined to seek new quarters.

As it chanced, I had in one of my rambles come upon an isolated dwelling
in the very heart of these lonely moors, which I at once determined
should be my own.  It was a two-roomed cottage, which had once belonged
to some shepherd, but had long been deserted, and was crumbling rapidly
to ruin.  In the winter floods, the Gaster Beck, which runs down Gaster
Fell, where the little dwelling stood, had overswept its banks and torn
away a part of the wall.  The roof was in ill case, and the scattered
slates lay thick amongst the grass.  Yet the main shell of the house
stood firm and true; and it was no great task for me to have all that was
amiss set right.

The two rooms I laid out in a widely different manner--my own tastes are
of a Spartan turn, and the outer chamber was so planned as to accord with
them.  An oil-stove by Rippingille of Birmingham furnished me with the
means of cooking; while two great bags, the one of flour, and the other
of potatoes, made me independent of all supplies from without.  In diet I
had long been a Pythagorean, so that the scraggy, long-limbed sheep which
browsed upon the wiry grass by the Gaster Beck had little to fear from
their new companion.  A nine-gallon cask of oil served me as a sideboard;
while a square table, a deal chair and a truckle-bed completed the list
of my domestic fittings.  At the head of my couch hung two unpainted
shelves--the lower for my dishes and cooking utensils, the upper for the
few portraits which took me back to the little that was pleasant in the
long, wearisome toiling for wealth and for pleasure which had marked the
life I had left behind.

If this dwelling-room of mine were plain even to squalor, its poverty was
more than atoned for by the luxury of the chamber which was destined to
serve me as my study.  I had ever held that it was best for my mind to be
surrounded by such objects as would be in harmony with the studies which
occupied it, and that the loftiest and most ethereal conditions of
thought are only possible amid surroundings which please the eye and
gratify the senses.  The room which I had set apart for my mystic studies
was set forth in a style as gloomy and majestic as the thoughts and
aspirations with which it was to harmonise.  Both walls and ceilings were
covered with a paper of the richest and glossiest black, on which was
traced a lurid and arabesque pattern of dead gold.  A black velvet
curtain covered the single diamond-paned window; while a thick, yielding
carpet of the same material prevented the sound of my own footfalls, as I
paced backward and forward, from breaking the current of my thought.
Along the cornices ran gold rods, from which depended six pictures, all
of the sombre and imaginative caste, which chimed best with my fancy.

And yet it was destined that ere ever I reached this quiet harbour I
should learn that I was still one of humankind, and that it is an ill
thing to strive to break the bond which binds us to our fellows.  It was
but two nights before the date I had fixed upon for my change of
dwelling, when I was conscious of a bustle in the house beneath, with the
bearing of heavy burdens up the creaking stair, and the harsh voice of my
landlady, loud in welcome and protestations of joy.  From time to time,
amid the whirl of words, I could hear a gentle and softly modulated
voice, which struck pleasantly upon my ear after the long weeks during
which I had listened only to the rude dialect of the dalesmen.  For an
hour I could hear the dialogue beneath--the high voice and the low, with
clatter of cup and clink of spoon, until at last a light, quick step
passed my study door, and I knew that my new fellow lodger had sought her
room.

On the morning after this incident I was up betimes, as is my wont; but I
was surprised, on glancing from my window, to see that our new inmate was
earlier still.  She was walking down the narrow pathway, which zigzags
over the fell--a tall woman, slender, her head sunk upon her breast, her
arms filled with a bristle of wild flowers, which she had gathered in her
morning rambles.  The white and pink of her dress, and the touch of deep
red ribbon in her broad drooping hat, formed a pleasant dash of colour
against the dun-tinted landscape.  She was some distance off when I first
set eyes upon her, yet I knew that this wandering woman could be none
other than our arrival of last night, for there was a grace and
refinement in her bearing which marked her from the dwellers of the
fells.  Even as I watched, she passed swiftly and lightly down the
pathway, and turning through the wicket gate, at the further end of our
cottage garden, she seated herself upon the green bank which faced my
window, and strewing her flowers in front of her, set herself to arrange
them.

As she sat there, with the rising sun at her back, and the glow of the
morning spreading like an aureole around her stately and well-poised
head, I could see that she was a woman of extraordinary personal beauty.
Her face was Spanish rather than English in its type--oval, olive, with
black, sparkling eyes, and a sweetly sensitive mouth.  From under the
broad straw hat two thick coils of blue-black hair curved down on either
side of her graceful, queenly neck.  I was surprised, as I watched her,
to see that her shoes and skirt bore witness to a journey rather than to
a mere morning ramble.  Her light dress was stained, wet and bedraggled;
while her boots were thick with the yellow soil of the fells.  Her face,
too, wore a weary expression, and her young beauty seemed to be clouded
over by the shadow of inward trouble.  Even as I watched her, she burst
suddenly into wild weeping, and throwing down her bundle of flowers ran
swiftly into the house.

Distrait as I was and weary of the ways of the world, I was conscious of
a sudden pang of sympathy and grief as I looked upon the spasm of despair
which, seemed to convulse this strange and beautiful woman.  I bent to my
books, and yet my thoughts would ever turn to her proud clear-cut face,
her weather-stained dress, her drooping head, and the sorrow which lay in
each line and feature of her pensive face.

Mrs. Adams, my landlady, was wont to carry up my frugal breakfast; yet it
was very rarely that I allowed her to break the current of my thoughts,
or to draw my mind by her idle chatter from weightier things.  This
morning, however, for once, she found me in a listening mood, and with
little prompting, proceeded to pour into my ears all that she knew of our
beautiful visitor.

"Miss Eva Cameron be her name, sir," she said: "but who she be, or where
she came fra, I know little more than yoursel'.  Maybe it was the same
reason that brought her to Kirkby-Malhouse as fetched you there yoursel',
sir."

"Possibly," said I, ignoring the covert question; "but I should hardly
have thought that Kirkby-Malhouse was a place which offered any great
attractions to a young lady."

"Heh, sir!" she cried, "there's the wonder of it.  The leddy has just
come fra France; and how her folk come to learn of me is just a wonder.  A
week ago, up comes a man to my door--a fine man, sir, and a gentleman, as
one could see with half an eye.  'You are Mrs. Adams,' says he.  'I
engage your rooms for Miss Cameron,' says he.  'She will be here in a
week,' says he; and then off without a word of terms.  Last night there
comes the young leddy hersel'--soft-spoken and downcast, with a touch of
the French in her speech.  But my sakes, sir!  I must away and mak' her
some tea, for she'll feel lonesome-like, poor lamb, when she wakes under
a strange roof."



II--HOW I WENT FORTH TO GASTER FELL


I was still engaged upon my breakfast when I heard the clatter of dishes
and the landlady's footfall as she passed toward her new lodger's room.
An instant afterward she had rushed down the passage and burst in upon me
with uplifted hand and startled eyes.  "Lord 'a mercy, sir!" she cried,
"and asking your pardon for troubling you, but I'm feared o' the young
leddy, sir; she is not in her room."

"Why, there she is," said I, standing up and glancing through the
casement.  "She has gone back for the flowers she left upon the bank."

"Oh, sir, see her boots and her dress!" cried the landlady, wildly.  "I
wish her mother was here, sir--I do.  Where she has been is more than I
ken, but her bed has not been lain on this night."

"She has felt restless, doubtless, and went for a walk, though the hour
was certainly a strange one."

Mrs. Adams pursed her lip and shook her head.  But then as she stood at
the casement, the girl beneath looked smilingly up at her and beckoned to
her with a merry gesture to open the window.

"Have you my tea there?" she asked in a rich, clear voice, with a touch
of the mincing French accent.

"It is in your room, miss."

"Look at my boots, Mrs. Adams!" she cried, thrusting them out from under
her skirt.  "These fells of yours are dreadful places--effroyable--one
inch, two inch; never have I seen such mud!  My dress, too--_voila_!"

"Eh, miss, but you are in a pickle," cried the landlady, as she gazed
down at the bedraggled gown.  "But you must be main weary and heavy for
sleep."

"No, no," she answered, laughingly, "I care not for sleep.  What is
sleep? it is a little death--_voila tout_.  But for me to walk, to run,
to beathe the air--that is to live.  I was not tired, and so all night I
have explored these fells of Yorkshire."

"Lord 'a mercy, miss, and where did you go?" asked Mrs. Adams.

She waved her hand round in a sweeping gesture which included the whole
western horizon.  "There," she cried.  "O comme elles sont tristes et
sauvages, ces collines!  But I have flowers here.  You will give me
water, will you not?  They will wither else."  She gathered her treasures
in her lap, and a moment later we heard her light, springy footfall upon
the stair.

So she had been out all night, this strange woman.  What motive could
have taken her from her snug room on to the bleak, wind-swept hills?
Could it be merely the restlessness, the love of adventure of a young
girl?  Or was there, possibly, some deeper meaning in this nocturnal
journey?

Deep as were the mysteries which my studies had taught me to solve, here
was a human problem which for the moment at least was beyond my
comprehension.  I had walked out on the moor in the forenoon, and on my
return, as I topped the brow that overlooks the little town, I saw my
fellow-lodger some little distance off among the gorse.  She had raised a
light easel in front of her, and with papered board laid across it, was
preparing to paint the magnificent landscape of rock and moor which
stretched away in front of her.  As I watched her I saw that she was
looking anxiously to right and left.  Close by me a pool of water had
formed in a hollow.  Dipping the cup of my pocket-flask into it, I
carried it across to her.

"Miss Cameron, I believe," said I.  "I am your fellow-lodger.  Upperton
is my name.  We must introduce ourselves in these wilds if we are not to
be for ever strangers."

"Oh, then, you live also with Mrs. Adams!" she cried.  "I had thought
that there were none but peasants in this strange place."

"I am a visitor, like yourself," I answered.  "I am a student, and have
come for quiet and repose, which my studies demand."

"Quiet, indeed!" said she, glancing round at the vast circle of silent
moors, with the one tiny line of grey cottages which sloped down beneath
us.

"And yet not quiet enough," I answered, laughing, "for I have been forced
to move further into the fells for the absolute peace which I require."

"Have you, then, built a house upon the fells?" she asked, arching her
eyebrows.

"I have, and hope within a few days to occupy it."

"Ah, but that is _triste_," she cried.  "And where is it, then, this
house which you have built?"

"It is over yonder," I answered.  "See that stream which lies like a
silver band upon the distant moor?  It is the Gaster Beck, and it runs
through Gaster Fell."

She started, and turned upon me her great dark, questioning eyes with a
look in which surprise, incredulity, and something akin to horror seemed
to be struggling for mastery.

"And you will live on the Gaster Fell?" she cried.

"So I have planned.  But what do you know of Gaster Fell, Miss Cameron?"
I asked.  "I had thought that you were a stranger in these parts."

"Indeed, I have never been here before," she answered.  "But I have heard
my brother talk of these Yorkshire moors; and, if I mistake not, I have
heard him name this very one as the wildest and most savage of them all."

"Very likely," said I, carelessly.  "It is indeed a dreary place."

"Then why live there?" she cried, eagerly.  "Consider the loneliness, the
barrenness, the want of all comfort and of all aid, should aid be
needed."

"Aid!  What aid should be needed on Gaster Fell?"

She looked down and shrugged her shoulders.  "Sickness may come in all
places," said she.  "If I were a man I do not think I would live alone on
Gaster Fell."

"I have braved worse dangers than that," said I, laughing; "but I fear
that your picture will be spoiled, for the clouds are banking up, and
already I feel a few raindrops."

Indeed, it was high time we were on our way to shelter, for even as I
spoke there came the sudden, steady swish of the shower.  Laughing
merrily, my companion threw her light shawl over her head, and, seizing
picture and easel, ran with the lithe grace of a young fawn down the
furze-clad slope, while I followed after with camp-stool and paint-box.

* * * * *

It was the eve of my departure from Kirkby-Malhouse that we sat upon the
green bank in the garden, she with dark dreamy eyes looking sadly out
over the sombre fells; while I, with a book upon my knee, glanced
covertly at her lovely profile and marvelled to myself how twenty years
of life could have stamped so sad and wistful an expression upon it.

"You have read much," I remarked at last.  "Women have opportunities now
such as their mothers never knew.  Have you ever thought of going
further--or seeking a course of college or even a learned profession?"

She smiled wearily at the thought.

"I have no aim, no ambition," she said.  "My future is black--confused--a
chaos.  My life is like to one of these paths upon the fells.  You have
seen them, Monsieur Upperton.  They are smooth and straight and clear
where they begin; but soon they wind to left and wind to right, and so
mid rocks and crags until they lose themselves in some quagmire.  At
Brussels my path was straight; but now, _mon Dieu_! who is there can tell
me where it leads?"

"It might take no prophet to do that, Miss Cameron," quoth I, with the
fatherly manner which twoscore years may show toward one.  "If I may read
your life, I would venture to say that you were destined to fulfil the
lot of women--to make some good man happy, and to shed around, in some
wider circle, the pleasure which your society has given me since first I
knew you."

"I will never marry," said she, with a sharp decision, which surprised
and somewhat amused me.

"Not marry--and why?"

A strange look passed over her sensitive features, and she plucked
nervously at the grass on the bank beside her.

"I dare not," said she in a voice that quivered with emotion.

"Dare not?"

"It is not for me.  I have other things to do.  That path of which I
spoke is one which I must tread alone."

"But this is morbid," said I.  "Why should your lot, Miss Cameron, be
separate from that of my own sisters, or the thousand other young ladies
whom every season brings out into the world?  But perhaps it is that you
have a fear and distrust of mankind.  Marriage brings a risk as well as a
happiness."

"The risk would be with the man who married me," she cried.  And then in
an instant, as though she had said too much, she sprang to her feet and
drew her mantle round her.  "The night air is chill, Mr. Upperton," said
she, and so swept swiftly away, leaving me to muse over the strange words
which had fallen from her lips.

Clearly, it was time that I should go.  I set my teeth and vowed that
another day should not have passed before I should have snapped this
newly formed tie and sought the lonely retreat which awaited me upon the
moors.  Breakfast was hardly over in the morning before a peasant dragged
up to the door the rude hand-cart which was to convey my few personal
belongings to my new dwelling.  My fellow-lodger had kept her room; and,
steeled as my mind was against her influence, I was yet conscious of a
little throb of disappointment that she should allow me to depart without
a word of farewell.  My hand-cart with its load of books had already
started, and I, having shaken hands with Mrs. Adams, was about to follow
it, when there was a quick scurry of feet on the stair, and there she was
beside me all panting with her own haste.

"Then you go--you really go?" said she.

"My studies call me."

"And to Gaster Fell?" she asked.

"Yes; to the cottage which I have built there."

"And you will live alone there?"

"With my hundred companions who lie in that cart."

"Ah, books!" she cried, with a pretty shrug of her graceful shoulders.
"But you will make me a promise?"

"What is it?" I asked, in surprise.

"It is a small thing.  You will not refuse me?"

"You have but to ask it."

She bent forward her beautiful face with an expression of the most
intense earnestness.  "You will bolt your door at night?" said she; and
was gone ere I could say a word in answer to her extraordinary request.

It was a strange thing for me to find myself at last duly installed in my
lonely dwelling.  For me, now, the horizon was bounded by the barren
circle of wiry, unprofitable grass, patched over with furze bushes and
scarred by the profusion of Nature's gaunt and granite ribs.  A duller,
wearier waste I have never seen; but its dullness was its very charm.

And yet the very first night which I spent at Gaster Fell there came a
strange incident to lead my thoughts back once more to the world which I
had left behind me.

It had been a sullen and sultry evening, with great livid cloud-banks
mustering in the west.  As the night wore on, the air within my little
cabin became closer and more oppressive.  A weight seemed to rest upon my
brow and my chest.  From far away the low rumble of thunder came moaning
over the moor.  Unable to sleep, I dressed, and standing at my cottage
door, looked on the black solitude which surrounded me.

Taking the narrow sheep path which ran by this stream, I strolled along
it for some hundred yards, and had turned to retrace my steps, when the
moon was finally buried beneath an ink-black cloud, and the darkness
deepened so suddenly that I could see neither the path at my feet, the
stream upon my right, nor the rocks upon my left.  I was standing groping
about in the thick gloom, when there came a crash of thunder with a flash
of lightning which lighted up the whole vast fell, so that every bush and
rock stood out clear and hard in the vivid light.  It was but for an
instant, and yet that momentary view struck a thrill of fear and
astonishment through me, for in my very path, not twenty yards before me,
there stood a woman, the livid light beating upon her face and showing up
every detail of her dress and features.

There was no mistaking those dark eyes, that tall, graceful figure.  It
was she--Eva Cameron, the woman whom I thought I had for ever left.  For
an instant I stood petrified, marvelling whether this could indeed be
she, or whether it was some figment conjured up by my excited brain.  Then
I ran swiftly forward in the direction where I had seen her, calling
loudly upon her, but without reply.  Again I called, and again no answer
came back, save the melancholy wail of the owl.  A second flash
illuminated the landscape, and the moon burst out from behind its cloud.
But I could not, though I climbed upon a knoll which overlooked the whole
moor, see any sign of this strange midnight wanderer.  For an hour or
more I traversed the fell, and at last found myself back at my little
cabin, still uncertain as to whether it had been a woman or a shadow upon
which I gazed.



III--OF THE GREY COTTAGE IN THE GLEN


It was either on the fourth or the fifth day after I had taken possession
of my cottage that I was astonished to hear footsteps upon the grass
outside, quickly followed by a crack, as from a stick upon the door.  The
explosion of an infernal machine would hardly have surprised or
discomfited me more.  I had hoped to have shaken off all intrusion for
ever, yet here was somebody beating at my door with as little ceremony as
if it had been a village ale-house.  Hot with anger, I flung down my book
and withdrew the bolt just as my visitor had raised his stick to renew
his rough application for admittance.  He was a tall, powerful man, tawny-
bearded and deep-chested, clad in a loose-fitting suit of tweed, cut for
comfort rather than elegance.  As he stood in the shimmering sunlight, I
took in every feature of his face.  The large, fleshy nose; the steady
blue eyes, with their thick thatch of overhanging brows; the broad
forehead, all knitted and lined with furrows, which were strangely at
variance with his youthful bearing.  In spite of his weather-stained felt
hat, and the coloured handkerchief slung round his muscular brown neck, I
could see at a glance he was a man of breeding and education.  I had been
prepared for some wandering shepherd or uncouth tramp, but this
apparition fairly disconcerted me.

"You look astonished," said he, with a smile.  "Did you think, then, that
you were the only man in the world with a taste for solitude?  You see
that there are other hermits in the wilderness besides yourself."

"Do you mean to say that you live here?" I asked in no conciliatory
voice.

"Up yonder," he answered, tossing his head backward.  "I thought as we
were neighbours, Mr. Upperton, that I could not do less than look in and
see if I could assist you in any way."

"Thank you," I said coldly, standing with my hand upon the latch of the
door.  "I am a man of simple tastes, and you can do nothing for me.  You
have the advantage of me in knowing my name."

He appeared to be chilled by my ungracious manner.

"I learned it from the masons who were at work here," he said.  "As for
me, I am a surgeon, the surgeon of Gaster Fell.  That is the name I have
gone by in these parts, and it serves as well as another."

"Not much room for practice here?" I observed.

"Not a soul except yourself for miles on either side."

"You appear to have had need of some assistance yourself," I remarked,
glancing at a broad white splash, as from the recent action of some
powerful acid, upon his sunburnt cheek.

"That is nothing," he answered, curtly, turning his face half round to
hide the mark.  "I must get back, for I have a companion who is waiting
for me.  If I can ever do anything for you, pray let me know.  You have
only to follow the beck upward for a mile or so to find my place.  Have
you a bolt on the inside of your door?"

"Yes," I answered, rather startled at this question.

"Keep it bolted, then," he said.  "The fell is a strange place.  You
never know who may be about.  It is as well to be on the safe side.
Goodbye."  He raised his hat, turned on his heel and lounged away along
the bank of the little stream.

I was still standing with my hand upon the latch, gazing after my
unexpected visitor, when I became aware of yet another dweller in the
wilderness.  Some distance along the path which the stranger was taking
there lay a great grey boulder, and leaning against this was a small,
wizened man, who stood erect as the other approached, and advanced to
meet him.  The two talked for a minute or more, the taller man nodding
his head frequently in my direction, as though describing what had passed
between us.  Then they walked on together, and disappeared in a dip of
the fell.  Presently I saw them ascending once more some rising ground
farther on.  My acquaintance had thrown his arm round his elderly friend,
either from affection or from a desire to aid him up the steep incline.
The square burly figure and its shrivelled, meagre companion stood out
against the sky-line, and turning their faces, they looked back at me.  At
the sight, I slammed the door, lest they should be encouraged to return.
But when I peeped from the window some minutes afterward, I perceived
that they were gone.

All day I bent over the Egyptian papyrus upon which I was engaged; but
neither the subtle reasonings of the ancient philosopher of Memphis, nor
the mystic meaning which lay in his pages, could raise my mind from the
things of earth.  Evening was drawing in before I threw my work aside in
despair.  My heart was bitter against this man for his intrusion.
Standing by the beck which purled past the door of my cabin, I cooled my
heated brow, and thought the matter over.  Clearly it was the small
mystery hanging over these neighbours of mine which had caused my mind to
run so persistently on them.  That cleared up, they would no longer cause
an obstacle to my studies.  What was to hinder me, then, from walking in
the direction of their dwelling, and observing for myself, without
permitting them to suspect my presence, what manner of men they might be?
Doubtless, their mode of life would be found to admit of some simple and
prosaic explanation.  In any case, the evening was fine, and a walk would
be bracing for mind and body.  Lighting my pipe, I set off over the moors
in the direction which they had taken.

About half-way down a wild glen there stood a small clump of gnarled and
stunted oak trees.  From behind these, a thin dark column of smoke rose
into the still evening air.  Clearly this marked the position of my
neighbour's house.  Trending away to the left, I was able to gain the
shelter of a line of rocks, and so reach a spot from which I could
command a view of the building without exposing myself to any risk of
being observed.  It was a small, slate-covered cottage, hardly larger
than the boulders among which it lay.  Like my own cabin, it showed signs
of having been constructed for the use of some shepherd; but, unlike
mine, no pains had been taken by the tenants to improve and enlarge it.
Two little peeping windows, a cracked and weather-beaten door, and a
discoloured barrel for catching the rain water, were the only external
objects from which I might draw deductions as to the dwellers within.  Yet
even in these there was food for thought, for as I drew nearer, still
concealing myself behind the ridge, I saw that thick bars of iron covered
the windows, while the old door was slashed and plated with the same
metal.  These strange precautions, together with the wild surroundings
and unbroken solitude, gave an indescribably ill omen and fearsome
character to the solitary building.  Thrusting my pipe into my pocket, I
crawled upon my hands and knees through the gorse and ferns until I was
within a hundred yards of my neighbour's door.  There, finding that I
could not approach nearer without fear of detection, I crouched down, and
set myself to watch.

I had hardly settled into my hiding place, when the door of the cottage
swung open, and the man who had introduced himself to me as the surgeon
of Gaster Fell came out, bareheaded, with a spade in his hands.  In front
of the door there was a small cultivated patch containing potatoes, peas
and other forms of green stuff, and here he proceeded to busy himself,
trimming, weeding and arranging, singing the while in a powerful though
not very musical voice.  He was all engrossed in his work, with his back
to the cottage, when there emerged from the half-open door the same
attenuated creature whom I had seen in the morning.  I could perceive now
that he was a man of sixty, wrinkled, bent, and feeble, with sparse,
grizzled hair, and long, colourless face.  With a cringing, sidelong
gait, he shuffled toward his companion, who was unconscious of his
approach until he was close upon him.  His light footfall or his
breathing may have finally given notice of his proximity, for the worker
sprang round and faced him.  Each made a quick step toward the other, as
though in greeting, and then--even now I feel the horror of the
instant--the tall man rushed upon and knocked his companion to the earth,
then whipping up his body, ran with great speed over the intervening
ground and disappeared with his burden into the house.

Case hardened as I was by my varied life, the suddenness and violence of
the thing made me shudder.  The man's age, his feeble frame, his humble
and deprecating manner, all cried shame against the deed.  So hot was my
anger, that I was on the point of striding up to the cabin, unarmed as I
was, when the sound of voices from within showed me that the victim had
recovered.  The sun had sunk beneath the horizon, and all was grey, save
a red feather in the cap of Pennigent.  Secure in the failing light, I
approached near and strained my ears to catch what was passing.  I could
hear the high, querulous voice of the elder man and the deep, rough
monotone of his assailant, mixed with a strange metallic jangling and
clanking.  Presently the surgeon came out, locked the door behind him and
stamped up and down in the twilight, pulling at his hair and brandishing
his arms, like a man demented.  Then he set off, walking rapidly up the
valley, and I soon lost sight of him among the rocks.

When his footsteps had died away in the distance, I drew nearer to the
cottage.  The prisoner within was still pouring forth a stream of words,
and moaning from time to time like a man in pain.  These words resolved
themselves, as I approached, into prayers--shrill, voluble prayers,
pattered forth with the intense earnestness of one who sees impending an
imminent danger.  There was to me something inexpressibly awesome in this
gush of solemn entreaty from the lonely sufferer, meant for no human ear,
and jarring upon the silence of the night.  I was still pondering whether
I should mix myself in the affair or not, when I heard in the distance
the sound of the surgeon's returning footfall.  At that I drew myself up
quickly by the iron bars and glanced in through the diamond-paned window.
The interior of the cottage was lighted up by a lurid glow, coming from
what I afterward discovered to be a chemical furnace.  By its rich light
I could distinguish a great litter of retorts, test tubes and condensers,
which sparkled over the table, and threw strange, grotesque shadows on
the wall.  On the further side of the room was a wooden framework
resembling a hencoop, and in this, still absorbed in prayer, knelt the
man whose voice I heard.  The red glow beating upon his upturned face
made it stand out from the shadow like a painting from Rembrandt, showing
up every wrinkle upon the parchment-like skin.  I had but time for a
fleeting glance; then, dropping from the window, I made off through the
rocks and the heather, nor slackened my pace until I found myself back in
my cabin once more.  There I threw myself upon my couch, more disturbed
and shaken than I had ever thought to feel again.

Such doubts as I might have had as to whether I had indeed seen my former
fellow-lodger upon the night of the thunderstorm were resolved the next
morning.  Strolling along down the path which led to the fell, I saw in
one spot where the ground was soft the impressions of a foot--the small,
dainty foot of a well-booted woman.  That tiny heel and high instep could
have belonged to none other than my companion of Kirkby-Malhouse.  I
followed her trail for some distance, till it still pointed, as far as I
could discern it, to the lonely and ill-omened cottage.  What power could
there be to draw this tender girl, through wind and rain and darkness,
across the fearsome moors to that strange rendezvous?

I have said that a little beck flowed down the valley and past my very
door.  A week or so after the doings which I have described, I was seated
by my window when I perceived something white drifting slowly down the
stream.  My first thought was that it was a drowning sheep; but picking
up my stick, I strolled to the bank and hooked it ashore.  On examination
it proved to be a large sheet, torn and tattered, with the initials J. C.
in the corner.  What gave it its sinister significance, however, was that
from hem to hem it was all dabbled and discoloured.

Shutting the door of my cabin, I set off up the glen in the direction of
the surgeon's cabin.  I had not gone far before I perceived the very man
himself.  He was walking rapidly along the hillside, beating the furze
bushes with a cudgel and bellowing like a madman.  Indeed, at the sight
of him, the doubts as to his sanity which had arisen in my mind were
strengthened and confirmed.

As he approached I noticed that his left arm was suspended in a sling.  On
perceiving me he stood irresolute, as though uncertain whether to come
over to me or not.  I had no desire for an interview with him, however,
so I hurried past him, on which he continued on his way, still shouting
and striking about with his club.  When he had disappeared over the
fells, I made my way down to his cottage, determined to find some clue to
what had occurred.  I was surprised, on reaching it, to find the iron-
plated door flung wide open.  The ground immediately outside it was
marked with the signs of a struggle.  The chemical apparatus within and
the furniture were all dashed about and shattered.  Most suggestive of
all, the sinister wooden cage was stained with blood-marks, and its
unfortunate occupant had disappeared.  My heart was heavy for the little
man, for I was assured I should never see him in this world more.

There was nothing in the cabin to throw any light upon the identity of my
neighbours.  The room was stuffed with chemical instruments.  In one
corner a small bookcase contained a choice selection of works of science.
In another was a pile of geological specimens collected from the
limestone.

I caught no glimpse of the surgeon upon my homeward journey; but when I
reached my cottage I was astonished and indignant to find that somebody
had entered it in my absence.  Boxes had been pulled out from under the
bed, the curtains disarranged, the chairs drawn out from the wall.  Even
my study had not been safe from this rough intruder, for the prints of a
heavy boot were plainly visible on the ebony-black carpet.



IV--OF THE MAN WHO CAME IN THE NIGHT


The night set in gusty and tempestuous, and the moon was all girt with
ragged clouds.  The wind blew in melancholy gusts, sobbing and sighing
over the moor, and setting all the gorse bushes agroaning.  From time to
time a little sputter of rain pattered up against the window-pane.  I sat
until near midnight, glancing over the fragment on immortality by
Iamblichus, the Alexandrian platonist, of whom the Emperor Julian said
that he was posterior to Plato in time but not in genius.  At last,
shutting up my book, I opened my door and took a last look at the dreary
fell and still more dreary sky.  As I protruded my head, a swoop of wind
caught me and sent the red ashes of my pipe sparkling and dancing through
the darkness.  At the same moment the moon shone brilliantly out from
between two clouds, and I saw, sitting on the hillside, not two hundred
yards from my door, the man who called himself the surgeon of Gaster
Fell.  He was squatted among the heather, his elbows upon his knees, and
his chin resting upon his hands, as motionless as a stone, with his gaze
fixed steadily upon the door of my dwelling.

At the sight of this ill-omened sentinel, a chill of horror and of fear
shot through me, for his gloomy and mysterious associations had cast a
glamour round the man, and the hour and place were in keeping with his
sinister presence.  In a moment, however, a manly glow of resentment and
self-confidence drove this petty emotion from my mind, and I strode
fearlessly in his direction.  He rose as I approached and faced me, with
the moon shining on his grave, bearded face and glittering on his
eyeballs.  "What is the meaning of this?" I cried, as I came upon him.
"What right have you to play the spy on me?"

I could see the flush of anger rise on his face.  "Your stay in the
country has made you forget your manners," he said.  "The moor is free to
all."

"You will say next that my house is free to all," I said, hotly.  "You
have had the impertience to ransack it in my absence this afternoon."

He started, and his features showed the most intense excitement.  "I
swear to you that I had no hand in it!" he cried.  "I have never set foot
in your house in my life.  Oh, sir, sir, if you will but believe me,
there is a danger hanging over you, and you would do well to be careful."

"I have had enough of you," I said.  "I saw that cowardly blow you struck
when you thought no human eye rested upon you.  I have been to your
cottage, too, and know all that it has to tell.  If there is a law in
England, you shall hang for what you have done.  As to me, I am an old
soldier, sir, and I am armed.  I shall not fasten my door.  But if you or
any other villain attempt to cross my threshold it shall be at your own
risk."  With these words, I swung round upon my heel and strode into my
cabin.

For two days the wind freshened and increased, with constant squalls of
rain until on the third night the most furious storm was raging which I
can ever recollect in England.  I felt that it was positively useless to
go to bed, nor could I concentrate my mind sufficiently to read a book.  I
turned my lamp half down to moderate the glare, and leaning back in my
chair, I gave myself up to reverie.  I must have lost all perception of
time, for I have no recollection how long I sat there on the borderland
betwixt thought and slumber.  At last, about 3 or possibly 4 o'clock, I
came to myself with a start--not only came to myself, but with every
sense and nerve upon the strain.  Looking round my chamber in the dim
light, I could not see anything to justify my sudden trepidation.  The
homely room, the rain-blurred window and the rude wooden door were all as
they had been.  I had begun to persuade myself that some half-formed
dream had sent that vague thrill through my nerves, when in a moment I
became conscious of what it was.  It was a sound--the sound of a human
step outside my solitary cottage.

Amid the thunder and the rain and the wind I could hear it--a dull,
stealthy footfall, now on the grass, now on the stones--occasionally
stopping entirely, then resumed, and ever drawing nearer.  I sat
breathlessly, listening to the eerie sound.  It had stopped now at my
very door, and was replaced by a panting and gasping, as of one who has
travelled fast and far.

By the flickering light of the expiring lamp I could see that the latch
of my door was twitching, as though a gentle pressure was exerted on it
from without.  Slowly, slowly, it rose, until it was free of the catch,
and then there was a pause of a quarter minute or more, while I still eat
silent with dilated eyes and drawn sabre.  Then, very slowly, the door
began to revolve upon its hinges, and the keen air of the night came
whistling through the slit.  Very cautiously it was pushed open, so that
never a sound came from the rusty hinges.  As the aperture enlarged, I
became aware of a dark, shadowy figure upon my threshold, and of a pale
face that looked in at me.  The features were human, but the eyes were
not.  They seemed to burn through the darkness with a greenish brilliancy
of their own; and in their baleful, shifty glare I was conscious of the
very spirit of murder.  Springing from my chair, I had raised my naked
sword, when, with a wild shouting, a second figure dashed up to my door.
At its approach my shadowy visitant uttered a shrill cry, and fled away
across the fells, yelping like a beaten hound.

Tingling with my recent fear, I stood at my door, peering through the
night with the discordant cry of the fugitives still ringing in my ears.
At that moment a vivid flash of lightning illuminated the whole landscape
and made it as clear as day.  By its light I saw far away upon the
hillside two dark figures pursuing each other with extreme rapidity
across the fells.  Even at that distance the contrast between them forbid
all doubt as to their identity.  The first was the small, elderly man,
whom I had supposed to be dead; the second was my neighbour, the surgeon.
For an instant they stood out clear and hard in the unearthly light; in
the next, the darkness had closed over them, and they were gone.  As I
turned to re-enter my chamber, my foot rattled against something on my
threshold.  Stooping, I found it was a straight knife, fashioned entirely
of lead, and so soft and brittle that it was a strange choice for a
weapon.  To render it more harmless, the top had been cut square off.  The
edge, however, had been assiduously sharpened against a stone, as was
evident from the markings upon it, so that it was still a dangerous
implement in the grasp of a determined man.

And what was the meaning of it all? you ask.  Many a drama which I have
come across in my wandering life, some as strange and as striking as this
one, has lacked the ultimate explanation which you demand.  Fate is a
grand weaver of tales; but she ends them, as a rule, in defiance of all
artistic laws, and with an unbecoming want of regard for literary
propriety.  As it happens, however, I have a letter before me as I write
which I may add without comment, and which will clear all that may remain
dark.

   "KIRKBY LUNATIC ASYLUM,
   "_September_ 4_th_, 1885.

   "SIR,--I am deeply conscious that some apology and explanation is due
   to you for the very startling and, in your eyes, mysterious events
   which have recently occurred, and which have so seriously interfered
   with the retired existence which you desire to lead.  I should have
   called upon you on the morning after the recapture of my father, but
   my knowledge of your dislike to visitors and also of--you will excuse
   my saying it--your very violent temper, led me to think that it was
   better to communicate with you by letter.

   "My poor father was a hard-working general practitioner in Birmingham,
   where his name is still remembered and respected.  About ten years ago
   he began to show signs of mental aberration, which we were inclined to
   put down to overwork and the effects of a sunstroke.  Feeling my own
   incompetence to pronounce upon a case of such importance, I at once
   sought the highest advice in Birmingham and London.  Among others we
   consulted the eminent alienist, Mr. Fraser Brown, who pronounced my
   father's case to be intermittent in its nature, but dangerous during
   the paroxysms.  'It may take a homicidal, or it may take a religious
   turn,' he said; 'or it may prove to be a mixture of both.  For months
   he may be as well as you or me, and then in a moment he may break out.
   You will incur a great responsibility if you leave him without
   supervision.'

   "I need say no more, sir.  You will understand the terrible task which
   has fallen upon my poor sister and me in endeavouring to save my
   father from the asylum which in his sane moments filled him with
   horror.  I can only regret that your peace has been disturbed by our
   misfortunes, and I offer you in my sister's name and my own our
   apologies."

   "Yours truly,
   "J. CAMERON."

