He was a great shock-headed, freckle-faced Borderer, the lineal
descendant of a cattle-thieving clan in Liddesdale. In spite of his
ancestry he was as solid and sober a citizen as one would wish to see, a
town councillor of Melrose, an elder of the Church, and the chairman of
the local branch of the Young Men's Christian Association. Brown was his
name--and you saw it printed up as "Brown and Handiside" over the great
grocery stores in the High Street. His wife, Maggie Brown, was an
Armstrong before her marriage, and came from an old farming stock in the
wilds of Teviothead. She was small, swarthy, and dark-eyed, with a
strangely nervous temperament for a Scotch woman. No greater contrast
could be found than the big tawny man and the dark little woman, but
both were of the soil as far back as any memory could extend.

One day--it was the first anniversary of their wedding--they had driven
over together to see the excavations of the Roman Fort at Newstead. It
was not a particularly picturesque spot. From the northern bank of the
Tweed, just where the river forms a loop, there extends a gentle slope
of arable land. Across it run the trenches of the excavators, with here
and there an exposure of old stonework to show the foundations of the
ancient walls. It had been a huge place, for the camp was fifty acres in
extent, and the fort fifteen. However, it was all made easy for them
since Mr. Brown knew the farmer to whom the land belonged. Under his
guidance they spent a long summer evening inspecting the trenches, the
pits, the ramparts, and all the strange variety of objects which were
waiting to be transported to the Edinburgh Museum of Antiquities. The
buckle of a woman's belt had been dug up that very day, and the farmer
was discoursing upon it when his eyes fell upon Mrs. Brown's face.

"Your good leddy's tired," said he. "Maybe you'd best rest a wee before
we gang further."

Brown looked at his wife. She was certainly very pale, and her dark eyes
were bright and wild.

"What is it, Maggie? I've wearied you. I'm thinkin' it's time we went
back."

"No, no, John, let us go on. It's wonderful! It's like a dreamland
place. It all seems so close and so near to me. How long were the Romans
here, Mr. Cunningham?"

"A fair time, mam. If you saw the kitchen midden-pits you would guess it
took a long time to fill them."

"And why did they leave?"

"Well, mam, by all accounts they left because they had to. The folk
round could thole them no longer, so they just up and burned the fort
aboot their lugs. You can see the fire marks on the stanes."

The woman gave a quick little shudder. "A wild night--a fearsome night,"
said she. "The sky must have been red that night--and these grey stones,
they may have been red also."

"Aye, I think they were red," said her husband. "It's a queer thing,
Maggie, and it may be your words that have done it; but I seem to see
that business aboot as clear as ever I saw anything in my life. The
light shone on the water."

"Aye, the light shone on the water. And the smoke gripped you by the
throat. And all the savages were yelling."

The old farmer began to laugh. "The leddy will be writin' a story aboot
the old fort," said he. "I've shown many a one ower it, but I never
heard it put so clear afore. Some folk have the gift."

They had strolled along the edge of the foss, and a pit yawned upon the
right of them.

"That pit was fourteen foot deep," said the farmer. "What d'ye think we
dug oot from the bottom o't? Weel, it was just the skeleton of a man wi'
a spear by his side. I'm thinkin' he was grippin' it when he died. Now,
how cam' a man wi' a spear doon a hole fourteen foot deep. He wasna'
buried there, for they aye burned their dead. What make ye o' that,
mam?"

"He sprang doon to get clear of the savages," said the woman.

"Weel, it's likely enough, and a' the professors from Edinburgh couldna'
gie a better reason. I wish you were aye here, mam, to answer a' oor
deeficulties sae readily. Now, here's the altar that we foond last week.
There's an inscreeption. They tell me it's Latin, and it means that the
men o' this fort give thanks to God for their safety."

They examined the old worn stone. There was a large deeply-cut "VV" upon
the top of it.

"What does 'VV' stand for?" asked Brown.

"Naebody kens," the guide answered.

"_Valeria Victrix_," said the lady softly. Her face was paler than ever,
her eyes far away, as one who peers down the dim aisles of overarching
centuries.

"What's that?" asked her husband sharply.

She started as one who wakes from sleep. "What were we talking about?"
she asked.

"About this 'VV' upon the stone."

"No doubt it was just the name of the Legion which put the altar up."

"Aye, but you gave some special name."

"Did I? How absurd! How should I ken what the name was?"

"You said something--'_Victrix_,' I think."

"I suppose I was guessing. It gives me the queerest feeling, this place,
as if I were not myself, but some one else."

"Aye, it's an uncanny place," said her husband, looking round with an
expression almost of fear in his bold grey eyes. "I feel it mysel'. I
think we'll just be wishin' you good evenin', Mr. Cunningham, and get
back to Melrose before the dark sets in."

Neither of them could shake off the strange impression which had been
left upon them by their visit to the excavations. It was as if some
miasma had risen from those damp trenches and passed into their blood.
All the evening they were silent and thoughtful, but such remarks as
they did make showed that the same subject was in the mind of each.
Brown had a restless night, in which he dreamed a strange connected
dream, so vivid that he woke sweating and shivering like a frightened
horse. He tried to convey it all to his wife as they sat together at
breakfast in the morning.

"It was the clearest thing, Maggie," said he. "Nothing that has ever
come to me in my waking life has been more clear than that. I feel as if
these hands were sticky with blood."

"Tell me of it--tell me slow," said she.

"When it began, I was oot on a braeside. I was laying flat on the
ground. It was rough, and there were clumps of heather. All round me was
just darkness, but I could hear the rustle and the breathin' of men.
There seemed a great multitude on every side of me, but I could see no
one. There was a low chink of steel sometimes, and then a number of
voices would whisper 'Hush!' I had a ragged club in my hand, and it had
spikes o' iron near the end of it. My heart was beatin' quickly, and I
felt that a moment of great danger and excitement was at hand. Once I
dropped my club, and again from all round me the voices in the darkness
cried, 'Hush!' I put oot my hand, and it touched the foot of another man
lying in front of me. There was some one at my very elbow on either
side. But they said nothin'.

"Then we all began to move. The whole braeside seemed to be crawlin'
downwards. There was a river at the bottom and a high-arched wooden
bridge. Beyond the bridge were many lights--torches on a wall. The
creepin' men all flowed towards the bridge. There had been no sound of
any kind, just a velvet stillness. And then there was a cry in the
darkness, the cry of a man who had been stabbed suddenly to the hairt.
That one cry swelled out for a moment, and then the roar of a thoosand
furious voices. I was runnin'. Every one was runnin'. A bright red
light shone out, and the river was a scarlet streak. I could see my
companions now. They were more like devils than men, wild figures clad
in skins, with their hair and beards streamin'. They were all mad with
rage, jumpin' as they ran, their mouths open, their arms wavin', the red
light beatin' on their faces. I ran, too, and yelled out curses like the
rest. Then I heard a great cracklin' of wood, and I knew that the
palisades were doon. There was a loud whistlin' in my ears, and I was
aware that arrows were flyin' past me. I got to the bottom of a dyke,
and I saw a hand stretched doon from above. I took it, and was dragged
to the top. We looked doon, and there were silver men beneath us holdin'
up their spears. Some of our folk sprang on to the spears. Then we
others followed, and we killed the soldiers before they could draw the
spears oot again. They shouted loud in some foreign tongue, but no mercy
was shown them. We went ower them like a wave, and trampled them doon
into the mud, for they were few, and there was no end to our numbers.

"I found myself among buildings, and one of them was on fire. I saw the
flames spoutin' through the roof. I ran on, and then I was alone among
the buildings. Some one ran across in front o' me. It was a woman. I
caught her by the arm, and I took her chin and turned her face so as the
light of the fire would strike it. Whom think you that it was, Maggie?"

His wife moistened her dry lips. "It was I," she said.

He looked at her in surprise. "That's a good guess," said he. "Yes, it
was just you. Not merely like you, you understand. It was you--you
yourself. I saw the same soul in your frightened eyes. You looked white
and bonnie and wonderful in the firelight. I had just one thought in my
head--to get you awa' with me; to keep you all to mysel' in my own home
somewhere beyond the hills. You clawed at my face with your nails. I
heaved you over my shoulder, and I tried to find a way oot of the light
of the burning hoose and back into the darkness.

"Then came the thing that I mind best of all. You're ill, Maggie. Shall
I stop? My God! you have the very look on your face that you had last
night in my dream. You screamed. He came runnin' in the firelight. His
head was bare; his hair was black and curled; he had a naked sword in
his hand, short and broad, little more than a dagger. He stabbed at me,
but he tripped and fell. I held you with one hand, and with the
other----"

His wife had sprung to her feet with writhing features.

"Marcus!" she cried. "My beautiful Marcus! Oh, you brute! you brute! you
brute!" There was a clatter of tea-cups as she fell forward senseless
upon the table.

       *       *       *       *       *

They never talk about that strange isolated incident in their married
life. For an instant the curtain of the past had swung aside, and some
strange glimpse of a forgotten life had come to them. But it closed
down, never to open again. They live their narrow round--he in his shop,
she in her household--and yet new and wider horizons have vaguely formed
themselves around them since that summer evening by the crumbling Roman
fort.

